Optimizing TiDB Settings for Maximum Performance (#19029)
pingcap/docs: tidb-performance-tuning-config.md

Reviewer: Preview: https://pingcap-docsite-preview-git-preview-pi-d2593f-oreoxmts-projects.vercel.app/tidb/dev/tidb-performance-tuning-config

![instance-plan-cache](/media/key-settings/instance-plan-cache.png)

#### Test workload

The following `sysbench oltp_read_only prepare` command loads data:

```bash
sysbench oltp_read_only prepare --mysql-host={host} --mysql-port={port} --mysql-user=root --db-driver=mysql --mysql-db=test --threads=100 --time=900 --report-interval=10 --tables=1000 --table-size=10000
```

The following `sysbench oltp_read_only run` command runs workload:

```bash
sysbench oltp_read_only run --mysql-host={host} --mysql-port={port} --mysql-user=root --db-driver=mysql --mysql-db=test --threads=200 --time=900 --report-interval=10 --tables=1000 --table-size=10000
```

For more information, see [How to Test TiDB Using Sysbench](/benchmark/benchmark-tidb-using-sysbench.md).

### YCSB workloads on Large record value

#### Test environment

The test environment is as follows:

- 3 TiDB servers (16 cores, 64 GiB)
- 3 TiKV servers (16 cores, 64 GiB)
- TiDB version: v8.4.0
- Workload: [go-ycsb workloada](https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb/blob/master/workloads/workloada)

> #### Performance Comparison

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Performance comparison
```

> The following table compares throughput (operations per second) between the baseline and optimized settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table compares throughput (operations per second) between the baseline and optimized settings.

```

| Item | Baseline (OPS) | Optimized (OPS) | Improvement |
| ---------| ---- | ----| ----|
| load data | 2858.5 | 5074.3 | +77.59% |
| workloada | 2243.0 | 12804.3 | +470.86% |

> #### Performance Analysis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Performance analysis
```

Titan is enabled by default since v7.6.0 and the default min-blob-size of Titan in TiDB v8.4.0 is 32KB. For the baseline configuration, we use a record size of 31KB to ensure data is stored in RocksDB. In contrast, for the key settings configuration, we set min-blob-size to 1KB, causing data to be stored in Titan.

The performance improvement observed in the Key Settings is primarily attributed to Titan's ability to reduce RocksDB compactions. As shown in the figures below:

- Baseline: The total throughput of RocksDB compaction exceeds 1GB/s, with peaks over 3GB/s.
- Key Settings: The peak throughput of RocksDB compaction remains below 100MB/s.

> This significant reduction in compaction overhead contributes to the overall throughput improvement seen in the Key Settings configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This significant reduction in compaction overhead contributes to the overall throughput improvement seen in the Key Settings configuration.

```

![titan-rocksdb-compactions](/media/key-settings/titan-rocksdb-compactions.png)

> #### Workload Commands

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Test workload
```

The following `go-ycsb load` command loads data:

```bash
go-ycsb load mysql -P /ycsb/workloads/workloada -p {host} -p mysql.port={port} -p threadcount=100 -p recordcount=5000000 -p operationcount=5000000 -p workload=core -p requestdistribution=uniform -pfieldcount=31 -p fieldlength=1024
```

The following `go-ycsb run` command runs workload:

```bash
go-ycsb run mysql -P /ycsb/workloads/workloada -p {host} -p mysql.port={port} -p mysql.db=test -p threadcount=100 -p recordcount=5000000 -p operationcount=5000000 -p workload=core -prequestdistribution=uniform -p fieldcount=31 -p fieldlength=1024
```

> ## Edge Cases and Specific Optimizations
> 
> While the general configurations provided earlier offer a good starting point for performance tuning, certain scenarios require more targeted optimizations. This section covers specific cases that may need individual attention and fine-tuning.
> 
> ### Identifying Edge Cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Edge cases and optimizations

This section shows you how to optimize TiDB for specific scenarios that need targeted adjustments beyond basic optimizations. You will learn how to tune TiDB for your particular use cases.

### Identify edge cases
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To identify edge cases, perform the following steps:

```

> 1. Analyze query patterns and workload characteristics
> 2. Monitor system metrics and performance bottlenecks
> 3. Gather feedback from application teams on specific pain points

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Analyze query patterns and workload characteristics.
2. Monitor system metrics to identify performance bottlenecks.
3. Gather feedback from application teams about specific issues.
```

> ### Common Edge Cases and Solutions
> 
> Here are the common edge cases and solutions:
> 
> 1. High TSO wait for high-frequency small queries
> 2. Choose the proper max chunk size for different workloads
> 3. Tune coprocessor cache for read-heavy workloads
> 4. Optimize chunk size for workload characteristics
> 5. Optimize transaction mode and DML type for different workloads
> 6. Optimize group by and distinct operations with TiKV pushdown
> 7. Mitigate MVCC version accumulation using in-memory engine
> 8. Optimize statistics collection during batch operations
> 9. Optimize thread pool settings for different instance types
> 
> Each of these cases may require adjustments to different parameters or usage of specific features in TiDB. The following sections provide more details on how to address these scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Common edge cases

The following lists some common edge cases:

- High TSO wait for high-frequency small queries
- Choose the proper max chunk size for different workloads
- Tune coprocessor cache for read-heavy workloads
- Optimize chunk size for workload characteristics
- Optimize transaction mode and DML type for different workloads
- Optimize `GROUP BY` and `DISTINCT` operations with TiKV pushdown
- Mitigate MVCC version accumulation using in-memory engine
- Optimize statistics collection during batch operations
- Optimize thread pool settings for different instance types

The following sections explain how to handle each of these cases. You need to adjust different parameters or use specific TiDB features for each scenario.
```

> Remember that these optimizations should be applied cautiously and with thorough testing, as their effectiveness can vary depending on your specific use case and data patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:**
>
> Apply these optimizations carefully and test thoroughly, as their effectiveness might vary based on your use case and data patterns.
```

### High TSO wait for high-frequency small queries

> #### How to Troubleshooting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Troubleshooting
```

> TSO (Timestamp Oracle) waiting time can become a significant performance bottleneck, particularly in workloads with high-frequency small transactions or queries that require frequent timestamp allocation. This bottleneck can be identified through the [SQL Execute Time Overview](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/performance-tuning-methods#tune-by-color) panel in the [Performance Overview Dashboard](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/grafana-performance-overview-dashboard). If TSO waiting time constitutes a large percentage of total SQL execution time, consider these optimizations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your workload involves frequent small transactions or queries that frequently request timestamps, [TSO (Timestamp Oracle)](/glossary.md#tso) can become a performance bottleneck. To check if TSO wait time is impacting your system, check the [**Performance Overview > SQL Execute Time Overview**](/grafana-performance-overview-dashboard.md#sql-execute-time-overview) panel. If TSO wait time constitutes a large portion of your SQL execution time, consider the following optimizations:
```

> - Use [`tidb_low_resolution_tso`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso) for read operations that don't require strict consistency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use low-precision TSO (enable [`tidb_low_resolution_tso`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso)) for read operations that do not need strict consistency. For more information, see [Solution 1: use low-precision TSO](#solution-1-low-precision-tso).
```

- Enable [`tidb_enable_batch_dml`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_batch_dml) to reduce TSO requests for batch operations

> - Consider batching small transactions into larger ones where possible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Combine small transactions into larger ones where possible. For more information, see [Solution 2: parallel mode for TSO requests](#solution-2-parallel-mode-for-tso-requests).
```

#### Solution 1 `tidb_low_resolution_tso`

> The `tidb_low_resolution_tso` setting allows TiDB to use cached timestamps for read operations, significantly reducing TSO wait time at the cost of potentially stale reads. This optimization is particularly effective for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can reduce TSO wait time by enabling the low-precision TSO feature ([`tidb_low_resolution_tso`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso)). After this feature is enabled, TiDB uses the cached timestamp to read data, reducing TSO wait time at the expense of potentially stale reads.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This optimization is particularly effective in the following scenarios:

```

> - Read-heavy workloads where slight staleness is acceptable
> - Scenarios where reducing query latency is more critical than absolute consistency
> - Applications that can tolerate reads that may be a few seconds behind the latest committed state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Read-heavy workloads where slight staleness is acceptable.
- Scenarios where reducing query latency is more important than absolute consistency.
- Applications that can tolerate reads that are a few seconds behind the latest committed state.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Benefits and trade-offs:

- Reduce query latency by enabling stale reads with a cached TSO, eliminating the need to request new timestamps.
- Balance performance against data consistency: this feature is only suitable for scenarios where stale reads are acceptable. It is not recommended to use it when strict data consistency is required.

```

To enable this optimization:

```sql

> set global tidb_low_resolution_tso=on;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SET GLOBAL tidb_low_resolution_tso=ON;
```

```

> 
> ##### Justifications
> 
> | configurations | Pro | Cons | 
> | ---------| ---- | ----|
> | [`tidb_low_resolution_tso`](system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso)| Reduces query latency by enabling stale reads with cached TSO, eliminating the need to request new timestamps | Trades consistency for performance - only suitable for scenarios that can tolerate stale reads. Not recommended when strict data consistency is required | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Move benefits and trade-offs before describing how to enable it.

> #### Solution 2 `tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Solution 2: parallel mode for TSO requests
```

> The default value of `tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode` is `DEFAULT`. When the following conditions are met, you can consider switching `tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode` to `PARALLEL` or `PARALLEL-FAST` for potential performance improvements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840) system variable switches the mode in which TiDB sends TSO RPC requests to PD. The default value is `DEFAULT`. When the following conditions are met, you can consider switching this variable to `PARALLEL` or `PARALLEL-FAST` for potential performance improvements:
```

- TSO waiting time constitutes a significant portion of the total execution time of SQL queries.
- The TSO allocation in PD has not reached its bottleneck.
- PD and TiDB nodes have sufficient CPU resources.
- The network latency between TiDB and PD is significantly higher than the time PD takes to allocate TSO (that is, network latency accounts for the majority of TSO RPC duration).

>     - To get the duration of TSO RPC requests, check the PD TSO RPC Duration panel in the PD Client section of the TiDB dashboard.
>     - To get the duration of PD TSO allocation, check the PD server TSO handle duration panel in the TiDB section of the Grafana PD dashboard.
> - The additional network traffic resulting from more TSO RPC requests between TiDB and PD (twice for PARALLEL or four times for PARALLEL-FAST) is acceptable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - To get the duration of TSO RPC requests, check the **PD TSO RPC Duration** panel in the PD Client section of the Grafana TiDB dashboard.
    - To get the duration of PD TSO allocation, check the **PD server TSO handle duration** panel in the TiDB section of the Grafana PD dashboard.
- The additional network traffic resulting from more TSO RPC requests between TiDB and PD (twice for `PARALLEL` or four times for `PARALLEL-FAST`) is acceptable.
```

> ```sql
> set global tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode=PARALLEL;
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
To switch the parallel mode, execute the following command:

```sql
-- Use the PARALLEL mode
SET GLOBAL tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode=PARALLEL;

-- Use the PARALLEL-FAST mode
SET GLOBAL tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode=PARALLEL-FAST;
```
````

### Tune coprocessor cache for read-heavy workloads

> For read-heavy workloads, optimizing the coprocessor cache can significantly improve query performance. The [coprocessor cache](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/coprocessor-cache) stores the results of coprocessor requests, reducing the need to recompute frequently accessed data. To optimize cache performance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can improve query performance for read-heavy workloads by optimizing the [coprocessor cache](/coprocessor-cache.md). This cache stores the results of coprocessor requests, reducing repeated computations of frequently accessed data. To optimize cache performance, perform the following steps:
```

> 1. Monitor the current cache hit ratio using the metrics described in the [coprocessor cache documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/coprocessor-cache)
> 2. Consider increasing the cache size for better hit rates on larger working sets
> 3. Adjust the admission threshold based on your query patterns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Monitor cache hit ratio using the metrics described in [Coprocessor Cache](/coprocessor-cache).
2. Increase cache size to improve hit rates for larger working sets.
3. Adjust admission threshold based on query patterns.
```

> Here are the recommended settings for a read-heavy workload:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following lists some recommended settings for a read-heavy workload:
```

```toml
[tikv-client.copr-cache]
capacity-mb = 4096
admission-max-ranges = 5000
admission-max-result-mb = 10
admission-min-process-ms = 0
```

### Optimize chunk size for workload characteristics

> The [`tidb_max_chunk_size`](system-variables.md#tidb_max_chunk_size) controls how many rows TiDB processes in a single iteration during query execution. Optimizing this value based on your workload can significantly impact performance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`tidb_max_chunk_size`](system-variables.md#tidb_max_chunk_size) system variable sets the maximum number of rows in a chunk during the execution process. Adjusting this value based on your workload can improve performance.
```

> #### Workload-Specific Recommendations
> 
> - **OLTP Workloads** (high concurrency, small transactions):
>     - Recommended range: 128-256 rows (default is 1024)
>     - Benefits: Reduced memory overhead, faster limit query processing
>     - Use case: Point queries, small range scans

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For OLTP workloads with large concurrency and small transactions:

    - Set the value between `128` and `256` rows (the default is 1024).
    - This reduces memory usage and makes limit queries faster.
    - Use case: point queries, small range scans.
```

    ```sql
    SET GLOBAL tidb_max_chunk_size = 128;
    ```

> - **OLAP/Analytical Workloads** (complex queries, large result sets):
>     - Recommended range: 1024-4096 rows
>     - Benefits: Improved throughput for large scans
>     - Use case: Aggregations, large table scans

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For OLAP or analytical workloads with complex queries and large result sets:

    - Set the value between `1024` and `4096` rows.
    - This increases throughput when scanning large amounts of data.
    - Use case: aggregations, large table scans.
```

    ```sql
    SET GLOBAL tidb_max_chunk_size = 4096;
    ```

### Optimize transaction mode and DML type for different workloads

> TiDB provides different transaction modes and DML execution types to optimize performance for various workload patterns:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB provides different transaction modes and DML execution types to optimize performance for various workload patterns.
```

> #### Transaction Modes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Transaction modes
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can set the transaction mode using the [`tidb_txn_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_mode) system variable.

```

> - **Pessimistic Mode** (Default):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Pessimistic transaction mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md) (default):

```

>     - Best for general workloads with potential write conflicts
>     - Provides better consistency guarantees

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Suitable for general workloads with potential write conflicts.
    - Provides stronger consistency guarantees.
```

    ```sql
    SET SESSION tidb_txn_mode = "pessimistic";
    ```

> - **Optimistic Mode**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Optimistic transaction mode](/optimistic-transaction.md):

```

>     - Suitable for workloads with minimal write conflicts
>     - Better performance for multi-statement transactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Suitable for workloads with minimal write conflicts.
    - Better performance for multi-statement transactions.
```

>     - Example: `begin; insert...; insert...; commit;`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Example: `BEGIN; INSERT...; INSERT...; COMMIT;`.
```

    ```sql
    SET SESSION tidb_txn_mode = "optimistic";
    ```

> #### DML Types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### DML types
```

> `tidb_dml_type = "bulk"` indicates the bulk DML execution mode, which is suitable for scenarios where a large amount of data is written, causing excessive memory usage in TiDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can control the execution mode of DML statements using the [`tidb_dml_type`](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800) system variable, which is introduced in v8.0.0.
```

> - **Pipeline DML** (New in v8.0.0):
>     - Ideal for bulk data loading with no conflicts
>     - Reduces TiDB memory usage during large writes
>     - Requirements:
>         - Auto-commit must be enabled
>         - `pessimistic-auto-commit` must be false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the bulk DML execution mode, set `tidb_dml_type` to `"bulk"`. This mode optimizes bulk data loading without conflicts and reduces memory usage during large write operations. Before using this mode, ensure that:

- Auto-commit is enabled.
- The [`pessimistic-auto-commit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#pessimistic-auto-commit-new-in-v600) configuration item is set to `false`.
```
Pipelined DML is the underlying implementation that enables Bulk DML. For consistency with our documentation, we should continue using the term "Bulk DML" when referring to this feature.

>     ```sql
>     SET SESSION tidb_dml_type = "bulk";
>     ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```sql
SET SESSION tidb_dml_type = "bulk";
```
````

> ### Optimize group by and distinct operations with TiKV pushdown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Optimize `GROUP BY` and `DISTINCT` operations with TiKV pushdown
```

> TiDB can push down aggregation operations to TiKV to optimize query performance by reducing data transfer and processing overhead. The effectiveness depends on your data characteristics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB pushes down aggregation operations to TiKV to reduce data transfer and processing overhead. The performance improvement varies based on your data characteristics.
```

> #### When to Use Pushdown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Usage scenarios
```

> - **Ideal Scenarios** (High Performance Gain):
>     - Columns with low number of distinct values (NDV)
>     - Data with high repetition (many duplicate values)
>     - Example: Status columns, category codes, date parts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Ideal scenarios** (high performance gain):
    - Columns containing few distinct values (low NDV).
    - Data containing frequent duplicate values.
    - Example: status columns, category codes, date parts.
```

> - **Non-Ideal Scenarios** (Potential Performance Loss):
>     - Columns with high NDV (mostly unique values)
>     - Unique identifiers or timestamps
>     - Example: User IDs, transaction IDs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Non-ideal scenarios** (potential performance loss):
    - Columns containing mostly unique values (high NDV).
    - Unique identifiers or timestamps.
    - Example: User IDs, transaction IDs.
```

#### Configuration

Enable pushdown optimizations at the session or global level:

```sql
-- Enable regular aggregation pushdown
SET GLOBAL tidb_opt_agg_push_down = ON;

-- Enable distinct aggregation pushdown
SET GLOBAL tidb_opt_distinct_agg_push_down = ON;
```

### Mitigate MVCC version accumulation using in-memory engine

> If you observe excessive MVCC versions during performance testing (caused by either hot read/write spots or garbage collection/compaction issues), you can enable the in-memory engine feature to alleviate this problem. This feature is available since v8.4.0 and can be enabled by adding the following configuration to your TiKV configuration file.

Reviewer: In-memory engine is introduced in v8.5.0: https://github.com/pingcap/docs/blob/f17f97ba568e350c694a14e0a8cfce1982e8d1e9/releases/release-8.5.0.md?plain=1#L152-L158

> If you observe excessive MVCC versions during performance testing (caused by either hot read/write spots or garbage collection/compaction issues), you can enable the in-memory engine feature to alleviate this problem. This feature is available since v8.4.0 and can be enabled by adding the following configuration to your TiKV configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Excessive MVCC versions can cause performance bottlenecks, particularly in high read/write areas or due to issues with garbage collection and compaction. To mitigate this, you can use the [in-memory engine](/tikv-in-memory-engine.md). This feature is introduced in v8.5.0. To enable it, add the following configuration to your TiKV configuration file.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > The in-memory engine can help reduce the impact of excessive MVCC versions, but it may increase memory usage. Monitor your system closely after enabling this feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The in-memory engine helps reduce the impact of excessive MVCC versions but might increase memory usage. Monitor your system after enabling this feature.
```

   ```toml
   [in-memory-engine]
   enabled = true
   gc-interval = "2m"
   hard-limit-threshold = "8GB"
   soft-limit-threshold = "7GB"
   stop-limit-threshold = "5GB"
   mvcc-amplification = 100
   load-evict-interval = "4m"
   ```

### Optimize statistics collection during batch operations

Statistics collection is crucial for query optimization but can impact performance during batch operations. Here's how to manage it effectively:

> #### When to Disable Auto Analyze

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### When to disable auto analyze
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can disable auto analyze by setting the [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze-new-in-v610) system variable to `OFF`  in the following scenarios:

```

> - During large data imports
> - Bulk update operations
> - Time-sensitive batch processing
> - When you want full control over statistics collection timing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- During large data imports.
- During bulk update operations.
- For time-sensitive batch processing.
- When you need full control over the timing of statistics collection.
```

#### Best Practices

> 1. **Before Batch Operation**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Before the batch operation:
```

## Overview

Optimizing TiDB for peak performance requires careful tuning of various settings. In many cases, achieving optimal performance involves adjusting configurations beyond their default values.

The default settings prioritize stability over performance. To maximize performance, you might need to use more aggressive configurations and, in some cases, experimental features. These recommendations are based on production deployment experience and performance optimization research.

This guide describes the non-default settings, including their benefits and potential trade-offs. Use this information to optimize TiDB settings for your workload requirements.

## Key settings for common workloads

The following settings are commonly used to optimize TiDB performance:

- Enhance execution plan cache, such as [Instance-level execution plan cache](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md), [Non-prepared plan cache](/sql-non-prepared-plan-cache.md), and [Instance-level execution plan cache](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache-new-in-v840).

> - Optimize the behavior of the TiDB optimizer using [Optimizer Fix Controls](/optimizer-fix-controls.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Optimize the behavior of the TiDB optimizer by using [Optimizer Fix Controls](/optimizer-fix-controls.md).
```

| [`tidb_rc_read_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_read_check_ts-new-in-v600)| For the read-committed isolation level, enabling this variable avoids the latency and cost of getting the global timestamp and optimizes transaction-level read latency. | This feature is incompatible with the Repeatable Read isolation level. | 
| [`tidb_guarantee_linearizability`](/system-variables.md#tidb_guarantee_linearizability-new-in-v50)| Improve performance by skipping the commit timestamp fetch from the PD server. | This sacrifices linearizability in favor of performance. Only causal consistency is guaranteed. It is not suitable for scenarios requiring strict linearizability. |
| [`pd_enable_follower_handle_region`](/system-variables.md#pd_enable_follower_handle_region-new-in-v760)| Activate the PD Follower feature, allowing PD followers to process Region requests. This helps distribute load evenly across all PD servers and reduces CPU pressure on the PD leader. | This is an experimental feature. Test in non-production environments. |

> | [`tidb_opt_fix_control`](/optimizer-fix-controls.md#tidb_opt_fix_control) | Enable advanced query optimization strategies to improve performance through additional optimization rules and heuristics. | Test thoroughly in your environment, as performance improvements vary by workload. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_opt_fix_control`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_fix_control-new-in-v653-and-v710) | Enable advanced query optimization strategies to improve performance through additional optimization rules and heuristics. | Test thoroughly in your environment, as performance improvements vary by workload. |
```

The following describes the optimizer control configurations that enable additional optimizations:

- [`44262:ON`](/optimizer-fix-controls.md#44262-new-in-v653-and-v720): Use [Dynamic pruning mode](/partitioned-table.md#dynamic-pruning-mode) to access the partitioned table when the [GlobalStats](/statistics.md#collect-statistics-of-partitioned-tables-in-dynamic-pruning-mode) are missing.
- [`44389:ON`](/optimizer-fix-controls.md#44389-new-in-v653-and-v720): For filters such as `c = 10 and (a = 'xx' or (a = 'kk' and b = 1))`, build more comprehensive scan ranges for `IndexRangeScan`.

> - [`44823:10000`](/optimizer-fix-controls.md#44823-new-in-v730): To save memory, Plan Cache does not cache queries with parameters exceeding the specified number of this variable. Increase plan cache parameter limit from `200` to `10000` to make plan cache available for query with long in-lists.
> - [`44830:ON`](/optimizer-fix-controls.md#44830-new-in-v730): Plan Cache is allowed to cache execution plans with the `PointGet` operator generated during physical optimization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [`44823:10000`](/optimizer-fix-controls.md#44823-new-in-v730): To save memory, plan cache does not cache queries with parameters exceeding the specified number of this variable. Increase plan cache parameter limit from `200` to `10000` to make plan cache available for query with long in-lists.
- [`44830:ON`](/optimizer-fix-controls.md#44830-new-in-v730): Plan cache is allowed to cache execution plans with the `PointGet` operator generated during physical optimization.
```

> - [`44830:ON`](/optimizer-fix-controls.md#44830-new-in-v730): Plan cache is allowed to cache execution plans with the `PointGet` operator generated during physical optimization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`44830:ON`](/optimizer-fix-controls.md#44830-new-in-v657-and-v730): Plan cache is allowed to cache execution plans with the `PointGet` operator generated during physical optimization.
```

> - [`44855:ON`](/optimizer-fix-controls.md#44855-new-in-v730): The optimizer selects `IndexJoin` when the `Probe` side of an `IndexJoin` operator contains a `Selection` operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`44855:ON`](/optimizer-fix-controls.md#44855-new-in-v654-and-v730): The optimizer selects `IndexJoin` when the `Probe` side of an `IndexJoin` operator contains a `Selection` operator.
```

- [`52869:ON`](/optimizer-fix-controls.md#52869-new-in-v810): The optimizer chooses index merge automatically if the optimizer can choose the single index scan method (other than full table scan) for a query plan.

### TiDB configurations

Add the following configuration items to the TiDB configuration file:

```toml
[performance]
concurrently-init-stats = true
force-init-stats = true
lite-init-stats = false
```

| Configuration item | Description | Note | 
| ---------| ---- | ----|
| [`concurrently-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#concurrently-init-stats-new-in-v810-and-v752), [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v657-and-v710), and [`lite-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#lite-init-stats-new-in-v710) | Ensure the concurrent and comprehensive loading of table statistics during TiDB startup, which improves initial query optimization performance. | Might increase startup duration and memory usage. |

### TiKV configurations

Add the following configuration items to the TiKV configuration file:

```toml
[server]
concurrent-send-snap-limit = 64
concurrent-recv-snap-limit = 64

> snap-io-max-bytes-per-sec = "400MB"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
snap-io-max-bytes-per-sec = "400MiB"
```

[pessimistic-txn]
in-memory-peer-size-limit = "32MiB"
in-memory-instance-size-limit = "512MiB"

[rocksdb.titan]
enabled = true
[rocksdb.defaultcf.titan]
min-blob-size = "1KB"
blob-file-compression = "zstd"

[storage.flow-control]
l0-files-threshold = 60
```

| Configuration item | Description | Note |
| ---------| ---- | ----|

> | [`concurrent-send-snap-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#concurrent-send-snap-limit), [`concurrent-recv-snap-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#concurrent-recv-snap-limit), and [`snap-io-max-bytes-per-sec`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#snap-io-max-bytes-per-sec) | Set limits for concurrent snapshot transfer and I/O bandwidth during TiKV scaling operations. Higher limits reduce scaling time by allowing faster data migration. | Adjusting these limits affects the trade-off between scaling speed and online transaction performance. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`concurrent-send-snap-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#concurrent-send-snap-limit), [`concurrent-recv-snap-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#concurrent-recv-snap-limit), and [`snap-io-max-bytes-per-sec`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#snap-io-max-bytes-per-sec) | Set limits for concurrent snapshot transfer and I/O bandwidth during TiKV scaling operations. Higher limits reduce scaling time by allowing faster data migration. | Adjusting these limits affects the tradeoff between scaling speed and online transaction performance. |
```

| [`storage.flow-control.l0-files-threshold`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#l0-files-threshold) | Control when write flow control is triggered based on the number of kvDB L0 files. Increasing the threshold reduces write stalls during high write workloads. | Higher thresholds might lead to more aggressive compactions when many L0 files exist. |

### TiFlash configurations

Add the following configuration items to the TiFlash configuration file:

```toml

> [raftstore-proxy.server]

Reviewer 2: Cannot find the `snap-io-max-bytes-per-sec` parameter in the [TiFlash confi file](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/tiflash-configuration). It's only in the [TiKV config file](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/tikv-configuration-file#snap-io-max-bytes-per-sec).
Do you mean `max_write_bytes_per_sec`?

> snap-io-max-write-bytes-per-sec = "300MiB"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
snap-io-max-bytes-per-sec = "300MiB"
```

```

| Configuration item | Description | Note |
| ---------| ---- | ----|

> | [`snap-io-max-write-bytes-per-sec`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#snap-io-max-bytes-per-sec) | Control the maximum write bandwidth for data replication from TiKV to TiFlash. Higher limits accelerate initial data loading and catch-up replication. | Higher bandwidth consumption might impact online transaction performance. Balance between replication speed and system stability. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`snap-io-max-bytes-per-sec`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#snap-io-max-bytes-per-sec) | Control the maximum write bandwidth for data replication from TiKV to TiFlash. Higher limits accelerate initial data loading and catch-up replication. | Higher bandwidth consumption might impact online transaction performance. Balance between replication speed and system stability. |
```

## Benchmark 

This section compares performance between default settings (baseline) and optimized settings based on the preceding [key settings for common loads](#key-settings-for-common-workloads).

### Sysbench workloads on 1000 tables

#### Test environment

The test environment is as follows:

- 3 TiDB servers (16 cores, 64 GiB)
- 3 TiKV servers (16 cores, 64 GiB)
- TiDB version: v8.4.0
- Workload: [sysbench oltp_read_only](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench/blob/master/src/lua/oltp_read_only.lua)

#### Performance comparison

The following table compares throughput, latency, and plan cache hit ratio between baseline and optimized settings.

| Metric | Baseline | Optimized | Improvement |
| ---------| ---- | ----| ----|
| QPS | 89,100 | 100,128 | +12.38% |
| Average latency (ms)|35.87 | 31.92 | -11.01% |
| P95 latency (ms)| 58.92 | 51.02 | -13.41% |
| Plan cache hit ratio (%) | 56.89% | 87.51% | +53.82% |
| Plan cache memory usage (MiB) | 95.3 | 70.2 | -26.34% |

> #### Key Benefits

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Key benefits
```

```

The following `sysbench oltp_read_only run` command runs workload:

```bash
sysbench oltp_read_only run --mysql-host={host} --mysql-port={port} --mysql-user=root --db-driver=mysql --mysql-db=test --threads=200 --time=900 --report-interval=10 --tables=1000 --table-size=10000
```

For more information, see [How to Test TiDB Using Sysbench](/benchmark/benchmark-tidb-using-sysbench.md).

### YCSB workloads on large record value

#### Test environment

The test environment is as follows:

- 3 TiDB servers (16 cores, 64 GiB)
- 3 TiKV servers (16 cores, 64 GiB)
- TiDB version: v8.4.0
- Workload: [go-ycsb workloada](https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb/blob/master/workloads/workloada)

#### Performance comparison

The following table compares throughput (operations per second) between the baseline and optimized settings.

| Item | Baseline (OPS) | Optimized (OPS) | Improvement |
| ---------| ---- | ----| ----|
| load data | 2858.5 | 5074.3 | +77.59% |
| workloada | 2243.0 | 12804.3 | +470.86% |

#### Performance analysis

> Titan is enabled by default starting from v7.6.0 and the default `min-blob-size` of Titan in TiDB v8.4.0 is `32KB`. The baseline configuration uses a record size of `31KB` to ensure data is stored in RocksDB. In contrast, for the key settings configuration, set `min-blob-size` to `1KB`, causing data to be stored in Titan.

Reviewer 2: See https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/tikv-configuration-file#min-blob-size
```suggestion
Titan is enabled by default starting from v7.6.0 and the default `min-blob-size` of Titan in TiDB v8.4.0 is `32KiB`. The baseline configuration uses a record size of `31KiB` to ensure data is stored in RocksDB. In contrast, for the key settings configuration, set `min-blob-size` to `1KiB`, causing data to be stored in Titan.
```

1. Analyze query patterns and workload characteristics.
2. Monitor system metrics to identify performance bottlenecks.
3. Gather feedback from application teams about specific issues.

### Common edge cases

The following lists some common edge cases:

- High TSO wait for high-frequency small queries
- Choose the proper max chunk size for different workloads
- Tune coprocessor cache for read-heavy workloads
- Optimize chunk size for workload characteristics
- Optimize transaction mode and DML type for different workloads
- Optimize `GROUP BY` and `DISTINCT` operations with TiKV pushdown
- Mitigate MVCC version accumulation using in-memory engine
- Optimize statistics collection during batch operations
- Optimize thread pool settings for different instance types

The following sections explain how to handle each of these cases. You need to adjust different parameters or use specific TiDB features for each scenario.

> **Note:**
>
> Apply these optimizations carefully and test thoroughly, as their effectiveness might vary based on your use case and data patterns.

### High TSO wait for high-frequency small queries

#### Troubleshooting

> If your workload involves frequent small transactions or queries that frequently request timestamps, [TSO (Timestamp Oracle)](/glossary.md#tso) can become a performance bottleneck. To check if TSO wait time is impacting your system, check the [**Performance Overview > SQL Execute Time Overview**](/grafana-performance-overview-dashboard.md#sql-execute-time-overview) panel. If TSO wait time constitutes a large portion of your SQL execution time, consider the following optimizations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your workload involves frequent small transactions or queries that frequently request timestamps, [TSO (Timestamp Oracle)](/glossary.md#timestamp-oracle-tso) can become a performance bottleneck. To check if TSO wait time is impacting your system, check the [**Performance Overview > SQL Execute Time Overview**](/grafana-performance-overview-dashboard.md#sql-execute-time-overview) panel. If TSO wait time constitutes a large portion of your SQL execution time, consider the following optimizations:
```

- The [`pessimistic-auto-commit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#pessimistic-auto-commit-new-in-v600) configuration item is set to `false`.

```sql
SET SESSION tidb_dml_type = "bulk";
```

### Optimize `GROUP BY` and `DISTINCT` operations with TiKV pushdown

TiDB pushes down aggregation operations to TiKV to reduce data transfer and processing overhead. The performance improvement varies based on your data characteristics.

#### Usage scenarios

- **Ideal scenarios** (high performance gain):
    - Columns containing few distinct values (low NDV).
    - Data containing frequent duplicate values.
    - Example: status columns, category codes, date parts.

- **Non-ideal scenarios** (potential performance loss):
    - Columns containing mostly unique values (high NDV).
    - Unique identifiers or timestamps.
    - Example: User IDs, transaction IDs.

#### Configuration

Enable pushdown optimizations at the session or global level:

```sql
-- Enable regular aggregation pushdown
SET GLOBAL tidb_opt_agg_push_down = ON;

-- Enable distinct aggregation pushdown
SET GLOBAL tidb_opt_distinct_agg_push_down = ON;
```

### Mitigate MVCC version accumulation using in-memory engine

> Excessive MVCC versions can cause performance bottlenecks, particularly in high read/write areas or due to issues with garbage collection and compaction. You can use the [in-memory engine](/tikv-in-memory-engine.md) introduced in v8.5.0 to mitigate this issue. To enable it, add the following configuration to your TiKV configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Excessive MVCC versions can cause performance bottlenecks, particularly in high read/write areas or due to issues with garbage collection and compaction. You can use the in-memory engine introduced in v8.5.0 to mitigate this issue. To enable it, add the following configuration to your TiKV configuration file.
```

The PR containing `tikv-in-memory-engine.md` has not been merged into the master branch.

## Overview

Optimizing TiDB for peak performance requires careful tuning of various settings. In many cases, achieving optimal performance involves adjusting configurations beyond their default values.

The default settings prioritize stability over performance. To maximize performance, you might need to use more aggressive configurations and, in some cases, experimental features. These recommendations are based on production deployment experience and performance optimization research.

This guide describes the non-default settings, including their benefits and potential trade-offs. Use this information to optimize TiDB settings for your workload requirements.

## Key settings for common workloads

The following settings are commonly used to optimize TiDB performance:

> - Enhance execution plan caching, such as [Instance-level execution plan cache](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md), [Non-prepared plan cache](/sql-non-prepared-plan-cache.md), and [Instance-level execution plan cache](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache-new-in-v840).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Enhance execution plan cache, such as [Instance-level execution plan cache](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md), [Non-prepared plan cache](/sql-non-prepared-plan-cache.md), and [Instance-level execution plan cache](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache-new-in-v840).
```

> - Optimize behavior of the TiDB optimizer using [Optimizer Fix Controls](/optimizer-fix-controls.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Optimize the behavior of the TiDB optimizer using [Optimizer Fix Controls](/optimizer-fix-controls.md).
```

blob-file-compression = "zstd"

[storage.flow-control]
l0-files-threshold = 60
```

| Configuration item | Description | Note |
| ---------| ---- | ----|
| [`concurrent-send-snap-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#concurrent-send-snap-limit), [`concurrent-recv-snap-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#concurrent-recv-snap-limit), and [`snap-io-max-bytes-per-sec`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#snap-io-max-bytes-per-sec) | Set limits for concurrent snapshot transfer and I/O bandwidth during TiKV scaling operations. Higher limits reduce scaling time by allowing faster data migration. | Adjusting these limits affects the trade-off between scaling speed and online transaction performance. |
| [`in-memory-peer-size-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#in-memory-peer-size-limit-new-in-v840) and [`in-memory-instance-size-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#in-memory-instance-size-limit-new-in-v840) | Control the memory allocation for pessimistic lock caching at the Region and TiKV instance levels. Storing locks in memory reduces disk I/O and improves transaction performance. | Monitor memory usage carefully. Higher limits improve performance but increase memory consumption. |

> | [`rocksdb.titan`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#rocksdbtitan), [`rocksdb.defaultcf.titan`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#rocksdbdefaultcftitan), [`min-blob-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size), and [`blob-file-compression`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-file-compression) | Enable the Titan storage engine to reduce write amplification and alleviate disk I/O bottlenecks. Particularly useful when RocksDB compaction cannot keep up with write workloads, resulting in accumulated pending compaction bytes. | Enable when write amplification is the primary bottleneck. Trade-offs: 1. Potential performance impact on primary key range scans. 2. Increased space amplification (up to 2x in the worst case). 3. Additional memory usage for blob cache. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`rocksdb.titan`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#rocksdbtitan), [`rocksdb.defaultcf.titan`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#rocksdbdefaultcftitan), [`min-blob-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size), and [`blob-file-compression`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-file-compression) | Enable the Titan storage engine to reduce write amplification and alleviate disk I/O bottlenecks. Particularly useful when RocksDB compaction cannot keep up with write workloads, resulting in accumulated pending compaction bytes. | Enable it when write amplification is the primary bottleneck. Trade-offs include: 1. Potential performance impact on primary key range scans. 2. Increased space amplification (up to 2x in the worst case). 3. Additional memory usage for blob cache. |
```

| [`storage.flow-control.l0-files-threshold`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#l0-files-threshold) | Control when write flow control is triggered based on the number of kvDB L0 files. Increasing the threshold reduces write stalls during high write workloads. | Higher thresholds might lead to more aggressive compactions when many L0 files exist. |

### TiFlash configurations

Add the following configuration items to the TiFlash configuration file:

```toml
[raftstore-proxy.server]
snap-io-max-write-bytes-per-sec = "300MiB"
```

| Configuration item | Description | Note |
| ---------| ---- | ----|

> | `snap-io-max-write-bytes-per-sec` | Control the maximum write bandwidth for data replication from TiKV to TiFlash. Higher limits accelerate initial data loading and catch-up replication. | Higher bandwidth consumption might impact online transaction performance. Balance between replication speed and system stability. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`snap-io-max-write-bytes-per-sec`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#snap-io-max-bytes-per-sec) | Control the maximum write bandwidth for data replication from TiKV to TiFlash. Higher limits accelerate initial data loading and catch-up replication. | Higher bandwidth consumption might impact online transaction performance. Balance between replication speed and system stability. |
```

## Benchmark 

This section compares performance between default settings (baseline) and optimized settings based on the preceding [key settings for common loads](#key-settings-for-common-workloads).

### Sysbench workloads on 1000 tables

#### Test environment

The test environment is as follows:

- 3 TiDB servers (16 cores, 64 GiB)
- 3 TiKV servers (16 cores, 64 GiB)
- TiDB version: v8.4.0
- Workload: [sysbench oltp_read_only](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench/blob/master/src/lua/oltp_read_only.lua)

#### Performance comparison

The following table compares throughput, latency, and plan cache hit ratio between baseline and optimized settings.

| Metric | Baseline | Optimized | Improvement |
| ---------| ---- | ----| ----|
| QPS | 89,100 | 100,128 | +12.38% |
| Average latency (ms)|35.87 | 31.92 | -11.01% |
| P95 latency (ms)| 58.92 | 51.02 | -13.41% |
| Plan cache hit ratio (%) | 56.89% | 87.51% | +53.82% |
| Plan cache memory usage (MiB) | 95.3 | 70.2 | -26.34% |

#### Key Benefits

The instance plan cache demonstrates significant performance improvements over the baseline configuration:

- Higher hit ratio: increases by 53.82% (from 56.89% to 87.51%).

> - Lower memory usage: decreases by 26.3% (from 95.3 MiB to 70.2 MiB).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Lower memory usage: decreases by 26.34% (from 95.3 MiB to 70.2 MiB).
```

- Better performance:

    - QPS increases by 12.38%.
    - Average latency decreases by 11.01%.
    - P95 latency decreases by 13.41%.

> #### How It Works

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### How it works
```

Instance plan cache improves performance through these mechanisms:

- Cache execution plans for `SELECT` statements in memory.
- Share cached plans across all connections (up to 200) on the same TiDB instance.
- Can effectively store plans for up to 5,000 `SELECT` statements across 1,000 tables.
- Cache misses primarily occur only for `BEGIN` and `COMMIT` statements.

#### Real-world benefits

Although the benchmark using simple sysbench `oltp_read_only` queries (14 KB per plan) shows modest improvements, you can expect greater benefits in real-word applications:

- Complex queries can run up to 20 times faster.
- Memory usage is more efficient compared to session-level plan cache.

Instance plan cache is particularly effective for systems with:

- Large tables with many columns.
- Complex SQL queries.
- High concurrent connections.
- Diverse query patterns.

> #### Memory Efficiency

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Memory efficiency
```

- Plans are shared across all connections
- No need to duplicate plans for each session
- More efficient memory utilization while maintaining higher hit ratios

In scenarios with multiple connections and complex queries, session-level plan cache would require significantly more memory to achieve similar hit ratios, making instance plan cache the more efficient choice.

![instance-plan-cache](/media/key-settings/instance-plan-cache.png)

#### Test workload

The following `sysbench oltp_read_only prepare` command loads data:

```bash
sysbench oltp_read_only prepare --mysql-host={host} --mysql-port={port} --mysql-user=root --db-driver=mysql --mysql-db=test --threads=100 --time=900 --report-interval=10 --tables=1000 --table-size=10000
```

The following `sysbench oltp_read_only run` command runs workload:

```bash
sysbench oltp_read_only run --mysql-host={host} --mysql-port={port} --mysql-user=root --db-driver=mysql --mysql-db=test --threads=200 --time=900 --report-interval=10 --tables=1000 --table-size=10000
```

For more information, see [How to Test TiDB Using Sysbench](/benchmark/benchmark-tidb-using-sysbench.md).

> ### YCSB workloads on Large record value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### YCSB workloads on large record value
```

#### Test environment

The test environment is as follows:

- 3 TiDB servers (16 cores, 64 GiB)
- 3 TiKV servers (16 cores, 64 GiB)
- TiDB version: v8.4.0
- Workload: [go-ycsb workloada](https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb/blob/master/workloads/workloada)

#### Performance comparison

The following table compares throughput (operations per second) between the baseline and optimized settings.

| Item | Baseline (OPS) | Optimized (OPS) | Improvement |
| ---------| ---- | ----| ----|
| load data | 2858.5 | 5074.3 | +77.59% |
| workloada | 2243.0 | 12804.3 | +470.86% |

#### Performance analysis

> Titan is enabled by default since v7.6.0 and the default min-blob-size of Titan in TiDB v8.4.0 is 32KB. For the baseline configuration, we use a record size of 31KB to ensure data is stored in RocksDB. In contrast, for the key settings configuration, we set min-blob-size to 1KB, causing data to be stored in Titan.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Titan is enabled by default starting from v7.6.0 and the default `min-blob-size` of Titan in TiDB v8.4.0 is `32KB`. The baseline configuration uses a record size of `31KB` to ensure data is stored in RocksDB. In contrast, for the key settings configuration, set `min-blob-size` to `1KB`, causing data to be stored in Titan.
```

> The performance improvement observed in the Key Settings is primarily attributed to Titan's ability to reduce RocksDB compactions. As shown in the figures below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The performance improvement observed in the Key Settings is primarily attributed to Titan's ability to reduce RocksDB compactions. As shown in the following figures:
```

> - Baseline: The total throughput of RocksDB compaction exceeds 1GB/s, with peaks over 3GB/s.
> - Key Settings: The peak throughput of RocksDB compaction remains below 100MB/s.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Baseline: The total throughput of RocksDB compaction exceeds 1 GiB/s, with peaks over 3 GiB/s.
- Key Settings: The peak throughput of RocksDB compaction remains below 100 MiB/s.
```

    - To get the duration of TSO RPC requests, check the **PD TSO RPC Duration** panel in the PD Client section of the Grafana TiDB dashboard.
    - To get the duration of PD TSO allocation, check the **PD server TSO handle duration** panel in the TiDB section of the Grafana PD dashboard.
- The additional network traffic resulting from more TSO RPC requests between TiDB and PD (twice for `PARALLEL` or four times for `PARALLEL-FAST`) is acceptable.

To switch the parallel mode, execute the following command:

```sql
-- Use the PARALLEL mode
SET GLOBAL tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode=PARALLEL;

-- Use the PARALLEL-FAST mode
SET GLOBAL tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode=PARALLEL-FAST;
```

### Tune coprocessor cache for read-heavy workloads

You can improve query performance for read-heavy workloads by optimizing the [coprocessor cache](/coprocessor-cache.md). This cache stores the results of coprocessor requests, reducing repeated computations of frequently accessed data. To optimize cache performance, perform the following steps:

> 1. Monitor cache hit ratio using the metrics described in [Coprocessor Cache](/coprocessor-cache.md#view-the-grafana-monitoring-panel).
> 2. Increase cache size to improve hit rates for larger working sets.
> 3. Adjust admission threshold based on query patterns.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Monitor the cache hit ratio using the metrics described in [Coprocessor Cache](/coprocessor-cache.md#view-the-grafana-monitoring-panel).
2. Increase the cache size to improve hit rates for larger working sets.
3. Adjust the admission threshold based on query patterns.
```

The following lists some recommended settings for a read-heavy workload:

```toml
[tikv-client.copr-cache]
capacity-mb = 4096
admission-max-ranges = 5000
admission-max-result-mb = 10
admission-min-process-ms = 0
```

### Optimize chunk size for workload characteristics

The [`tidb_max_chunk_size`](system-variables.md#tidb_max_chunk_size) system variable sets the maximum number of rows in a chunk during the execution process. Adjusting this value based on your workload can improve performance.

- For OLTP workloads with large concurrency and small transactions:

>     - Set the value between `128` and `256` rows (the default is 1024).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Set the value between `128` and `256` rows (the default value is `1024`).
```

- The [`pessimistic-auto-commit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#pessimistic-auto-commit-new-in-v600) configuration item is set to `false`.

```sql
SET SESSION tidb_dml_type = "bulk";
```

### Optimize `GROUP BY` and `DISTINCT` operations with TiKV pushdown

TiDB pushes down aggregation operations to TiKV to reduce data transfer and processing overhead. The performance improvement varies based on your data characteristics.

#### Usage scenarios

- **Ideal scenarios** (high performance gain):
    - Columns containing few distinct values (low NDV).
    - Data containing frequent duplicate values.
    - Example: status columns, category codes, date parts.

- **Non-ideal scenarios** (potential performance loss):
    - Columns containing mostly unique values (high NDV).
    - Unique identifiers or timestamps.
    - Example: User IDs, transaction IDs.

#### Configuration

Enable pushdown optimizations at the session or global level:

```sql
-- Enable regular aggregation pushdown
SET GLOBAL tidb_opt_agg_push_down = ON;

-- Enable distinct aggregation pushdown
SET GLOBAL tidb_opt_distinct_agg_push_down = ON;
```

### Mitigate MVCC version accumulation using in-memory engine

> Excessive MVCC versions can cause performance bottlenecks, particularly in high read/write areas or due to issues with garbage collection and compaction. To mitigate this, you can use the [in-memory engine](/tikv-in-memory-engine.md). This feature is introduced in v8.5.0. To enable it, add the following configuration to your TiKV configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Excessive MVCC versions can cause performance bottlenecks, particularly in high read/write areas or due to issues with garbage collection and compaction. You can use the [in-memory engine](/tikv-in-memory-engine.md) introduced in v8.5.0 to mitigate this issue. To enable it, add the following configuration to your TiKV configuration file.
```

> **Note:**
>
> The in-memory engine helps reduce the impact of excessive MVCC versions but might increase memory usage. Monitor your system after enabling this feature.

```toml
[in-memory-engine]

> enabled = true
> gc-interval = "2m"
> hard-limit-threshold = "8GB"
> soft-limit-threshold = "7GB"
> stop-limit-threshold = "5GB"
> mvcc-amplification = 100
> load-evict-interval = "4m"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
enable = true
```

Default configurations are good enough for most scenarios.

```

### Optimize statistics collection during batch operations

You can optimize performance during batch operations while maintaining query optimization by managing statistics collection. This section describes how to manage this process effectively.

#### When to disable auto analyze

> You can disable auto analyze by setting the [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze-new-in-v610) system variable to `OFF`  in the following scenarios:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can disable auto analyze by setting the [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze-new-in-v610) system variable to `OFF` in the following scenarios:
```
